🧑 General / HR / Experience

Introduce yourself
Can you introduce yourself?
Tell me about yourself
Tell me about yourself and describe the key projects you are currently working on.
What you do in your company and infra and project
What are your day-to-day activities as a DevOps engineer?
Do you work in rotational shifts or a general day shift?

🔁 CI/CD / DevOps Process

CI/CD Workflow
Can you explain the CI/CD workflow you follow?
Can you walk me through the CI/CD flow you have implemented in your project?
GitLab CI/CD - YAML for rollout/rollback deployment
Can you explain a recent issue you faced in GitLab CI/CD?
Do you use ArgoCD, or do you rely on another CI/CD tool for deployments?
What responsibilities do you handle in managing or maintaining Jenkins?

🌍 Terraform

Terraform – How do you manage an existing EC2 instance by using Terraform?
Terraform Architecture
Difference between main.tf vs terraform.tfstate vs terraform.tfvars
What is Terraform State File?
What is terraform taint, and when would you use it?
What is called as terraform taint
If an EC2 instance was created manually earlier, and now I am asked you to add more RAM for ec2 instance through terraform, how you do
How do you protect the resource from accidental deletion in terraform
What are the remote backends available for storing a Terraform state file?
How do you implement a remote backend in Terraform?
Which version of Terraform are you currently using?
How do you maintain state in Terraform?
If infrastructure is created using Terraform and someone manually modifies a security group in AWS, how do you handle it and apply future changes?
What is a Terraform workspace?

☁ AWS / Cloud

AWS – Auto Load Balancer troubleshooting steps
What AWS services have you worked with?
Static IP vs Dynamic IP
Private IP is not visible, we should use only public IP but needs to be restricted. How?
Why your org considers Autoscaling instead of Reserved or Spot Instances?
How You Reduced Monthly Costs by 20% Through EC2?
You mentioned AWS cost optimization in your resume — how did you achieve that?
How do you perform cost optimization in AWS in practice?
What is a target policy in IAM?
What is the difference between IAM roles and IAM policies in AWS?
Have you created a complete VPC end-to-end?
How do you troubleshoot network issues in AWS?
How would you create an EKS cluster?

☸ Kubernetes

Difference between master and worker nodes and what are the components in it
What is the difference between a Kubernetes master (control plane) node and a worker node?
how does schedular will decide which node to place the pod
How does the Kubernetes scheduler decide on which node a pod should be placed?
what is stateful and stateless applications in Kubernetes
What is the difference between stateless and stateful applications?
what is kubectl drain and what happens when we execute this
what is kubectl cordon
What is node affinity
How do you check the etcd health
Difference between secrets and config map
What is a CrashLoopBackOff (CrashBackLoop)
What is a Persistent Volume in Kubernetes?
What are taints and tolerations in Kubernetes?
What is a ClusterRoleBinding in Kubernetes?
Which Kubernetes are you currently using - Self-hosted or Cloud Provider like EKS?
Have you created a Kubernetes cluster from scratch, or are you managing an existing one?
Do you use ClusterIP services in Kubernetes?
How do you expose your application to the internet?
In which Kubernetes manifest do you specify the number of replicas?

🐳 Docker / Containers

Docker – How do you ensure security while writing the Dockerfile?
What is the difference between Docker and Kubernetes?
Difference b/t Docker and Podman
Are you aware of Podman?
What is Docker networking?
What typically goes inside a Dockerfile?
Difference b/t Bind and Mount
What is the restart policy in Docker?
What does docker prune mean?
What is the difference between COPY and ADD commands in Docker?
Have you created a multi-stage Dockerfile?
How do applications running in different Docker networks communicate with each other?
How do you optimize your Docker images?

🧰 Ansible

Have you used Ansible
How do you maintain the secrets in Ansible
in ansible playbook, it should wait until the reboot to complete fully to execute next task in server - what do you mention in playbook
What is Ansible, what is it used for, and what are its key components

🐍 Python

By using Python - what automation scripts you have created?
Are you comfortable working on Python-based projects or writing Python automation scripts?

🐧 Linux

Linux – Get exact matching word in a file
DNS is Not Working in Linux – How to Check Connectivity and Troubleshoot
Basic commands in Linux like memory, cpu, ..
What experience do you have with Linux, including troubleshooting and scripting?
Which Linux distribution do you mostly work with?
Have you heard of user namespaces in Linux?
In a Bash script, how would you delete log folders older than 30 days?

🔐 Git / GitHub / GitLab

GitLab/GitHub – Restrict creating new branches when already 4 branches exist
Difference between git merge vs git rebase
Is GitLab deployed as a container or on a virtual machine?
How do you manage RBAC in GitLab for application teams?
How do you manage LDAP integration?

📊 Monitoring / Logging

What monitoring stack or tools are currently used in your organization?
What monitoring tools have you worked with?
Have you used Splunk?
Can you explain Prometheus and how you configured it?
What is Node Exporter?

🌐 Networking / Protocols

Difference Between TCP vs UDP
What is TLS?
What does HTTP status code 404 mean?
What does HTTP status code 403 mean?
What does HTTP status code 200 mean?
What is a Virtual Host in Apache?

📦 Messaging / Streaming

Can you explain the Kafka architecture used in your organization?
What are the key differences between SonicMQ and Kafka?
What is the difference between RabbitMQ and SonicMQ?
